but just before we begin I want to tell
you about our live classes that are
coming we're about to do a series of
IELTS writing and reading master classes
these will be if you're a paid member
you'll get already get full access to
these but they'll be in this live format
there'll be five different teachers I'll
be one of them what we're going to do is
this Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
Friday we're going to do academic
writing task one
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
after academic writing task one will do
a writing task 2 for both general and
academic we'll also do general writing
task 1 and reading so you're about if
you're an e-2 language member free or
paid you're about to receive an email
from us if you're free asking you to
sign up so you can joining these live
classes and if you're paid you'll
automatically join in addition to the
live classes with me as your teacher for
example you'll also get a PDF workbook
that you'll print out and bring to class
and I want to what I want to do is
simulate the exam experience oh no I
want to put you in a position of how it
is on test day I want you to feel the
pressure and the intensity of what it's
like to write one of these descriptions
in 20 minutes or write an essay in 40
minutes of course we'll help you we'll
guide you along the way so that's going
to be cool so look out for those emails
right what are we going to do tonight
though we're going to do I'll to
academic writing task 1 and we're going
to look at multiple tables in fact we're
not going to start just yet because I
have to get my little drawing tool up
just give me one second to do this
and the computers thinking of what to do
come on computer stop thinking I want
that yeah work okay just bear with me I
lost my that's my little drawing tool
where are you okay that's not working
open there it is there it is there it is
and just stop looking at my funny face
just bear with me when I get my pin out
read and we'll go for that's a bit thick
let me change it that's better okay now
we're ready to go sorry for the delay
hello everybody my name is Jay one of
the expert IELTS teachers here at e2
language in this class we're going to
look at IELTS academic writing task 1
we're going to look at multiple tables
which I really hope that this is not
what you have to look at on test day
because this is tough but this is also
very possible you may be faced with
three tables like this don't go anywhere
let's write this together I'm going to
show you how to write a really nicely
structured response on three tables okay
we last time we looked at three line
graph this time we'll look at three
tables so get out a pen and a piece of
paper we're gonna write 150 words we'll
do it together okay cool
so the mission is to work write a
well-structured relevant and
high-scoring task one here's a
description so the description says the
tables below show the value of
Australia's trade with China the USA and
Japan from 2012 to 2015 in billions of
Australian dollars let's read it again
because on test day you're going to have
to read this twice three times make sure
that you fully understand what that
description says about what those graphs
are about the tables below
sure the value of Australia's trade with
China the USA and Japan from 2012 to
2015 in billions of Australian dollars
we'll get to that in a little bit
summarize the information by selecting
and reporting the main features and make
comparisons where relevant let's look at
the structure okay before we do that we
need to understand these what we're
looking at so trade with China trade
with the USA trade with Japan so they're
separated into three tables according to
trade with each country okay in this
column we have imports you can see
imports for China for example let's go
through them Chinese imports
went from two point five to four to one
point seven five to two point seven five
there's also the years here okay
increasing okay fine then we have
exports fine then we have the years and
so we can look at 2012 imports and
exports 2013 imports and exports
fourteen fifteen etc let's go back
though I want you just to spend 30
seconds understanding these tables it's
a critical first step
alright alright let's go through now
Duke did it - do it come on let me go
through cool cool cool so how this I
think there's sort of two structures
actually I used to teach one structure
for everything but I tell you what for
three graphs I think we need to change
it a little bit so like last week or the
week before we're going to do a
different structure because we're not
looking at two graphs or two pie charts
or two tables we're looking at three and
so the other structure doesn't quite
work we need a different structure the
different structure is going to be less
we're going to still write our summary
sentence okay that's easy we'll stick
with that that's fine
but we're going to have three paragraphs
okay first paragraph will contain both
the description and the comparison of
China the second paragraph will contain
both the description and comparison of
the USA and we'll do the same for Japan
so we're actually combining the
description in the comparison what we
used to do is write this first and then
we have a separate paragraph where we
compared all of the data but having
three countries it's just too much okay
so this is what it's going to look like
on test day on your piece of paper we're
going to have the summary then we're
going to have a paragraph about China
about the USA and Japan no it doesn't
really matter you could switch the order
of these that there's no real reason why
we have to order it like that but
importantly we're gonna have an opening
single sentence which describes in
general then from here to here we get
into the specifics and we start to
compare okay so I'm gonna show you how
to do this
first things first that we need to write
a summary so what I want you to is to
rewrite this description in your own
words to say the same thing you have
three minutes
all right how did you go out by the way
cool all right I don't know why there's
only five people on YouTube that's
terrible if you're watching this on
YouTube now please give me a thumbs up
just to make myself feel a bit better
given data represents the worth of
Australian trade with China the United
States and Japan for three years in
billions of Australian dollars in
Australia okay billions of Australian
dollars sometimes when you need to
rewrite something sometimes you just
cannot and you have to take it directly
so Australian dollars there's no other
way to say that I don't think good the
table shows the statistics of
Australia's trade with China the US and
Japan for the years 2012 to 2015 in
billions of Australian dollars these
tables depict Australia's international
trade with countries such as China the
US and Japan and billions of Australian
dollars between 2012 and 2015 these are
looking really nice well done one more
the given tables represent the amount
import and export okay what about the
given tables represent the imports and
exports of Australia's trade with the
USA in Japan and China over the
three-year period between 2012 and 2015
they're looking really nice well done
let's move on though because that's kind
of the easy bit but let me read you mine
first mine says this the three tables
represent Australia's trade in terms of
imports and exports so I put this little
section in here now use commas in terms
of imports and exports with China the
USA and Japan over a four year period I
actually wrote a second sentence and
said the unit's are measured in billions
of Australian dollars okay so that's
fine you can actually start a second
sentence and talk about the measurement
for example the units are measured in
milliliters the units are measured in
kilograms the units are measured in
billions of dollars etc fine let's talk
about China so what we want to do is
this we want to describe
the general trends in one sentence and
then described slash compare imports and
exports in two to four sentences okay so
here's trade with China let's think
about it let me talk you through this so
we want a general overview sentence so
what I want you to look at first is
imports what did imports do from 2012 to
well they sort of started here they went
up then right down and then like that so
I don't know what you would call that I
call that a fluctuation right fine
so imports fluctuated we can say that
okay fine now let's have a think about
exports okay so we want to look here
what did exports - well they started at
four so and then they went down okay
and they went then they went down again
and then they went down again okay so
what did exports do well exports
declined or decreased okay fine so now
we need a single sentence that combines
those two pieces of information one
about imports fluctuating one of our
exports declining so let's after that
sorry I want you to write the whole
thing I'm gonna give you five minutes
then after you've written your
introductory or your description
sentence
I then want you to compare I don't want
you to compare this way I don't need to
compare imports and exports it's a bit
misleading I actually want you to
describe what happened to imports more
specifically over the four years then I
want you to talk about exports more
specifically over the four years give
you five minutes
how's it going by the way it's okay
that's all something's going on shut
there okay good nice so a casita you
need to include data you need to include
numbers years billions of dollars how
much it increased decreased this is
we're doing both in this paragraph we
want to have a general description of
the trends okay whether it fluctuated or
decreased or increased then we get into
detail and we say in fact in 2012
imports with two billion dollars they
increased by 1 billion dollars before
plateauing and whatever okay fine
now the chats gone strange from I don't
know what you're seeing but I'm seeing
strange things so during this period of
time Australia's imports from China good
fluctuated while exports from China into
Australia exports from Australia into
China declined dramatically good that's
fine in 2012 imports to China accounted
for 2.5 billion dollars thereafter it
reached a high of four billion dollars
in 2013 and a low of 1.75 billion
dollars in the following year by 2015 it
increased two point seven five seven
five billion dollars that's exactly what
you have to do well done whoever did
that that's exactly what you have to do
what I'll do is I'm going to read you
mine so let's read this this is what I
wrote now by the way we spent three
minutes here we spent five minutes here
we're going to spend five minutes here
and five minutes here 15 16 17 18 we
spend about two minutes understanding
question prompt that's 20 minutes in
total okay so if you didn't finish you
need to write more quickly let me read
your mind imports from China fluctuated
substantially while exports deep
priest consistently year-on-year okay so
I've got my two things that I've said
here I've said imports fluctuated
exports decreased okay so that's cool
now I move into a detailed description
in comparison over the four years
imports rose from 2.5 billion dollars to
4 billion dollars before decreasing
significantly in 2014 to 1.75 billion
dollars and settling at 2.7 5 billion
dollars by contrast exports dropped
substantially in the first year by 1.25
billion and then less so by 0.25 billion
and then by a further point 5 billion so
what I've done in fact is a little bit
different I've subtracted and worked out
by how much it decreased you can do that
if you want as well but it's just a two
things going on there a general
description and then I've compared
imports and exports year-on-year if
you're on YouTube and you're liking what
you see please click like leave a
comment subscribe and share this with
your friends so they can pass their
IELTS as soon as possible
USA let's do the USA general trends same
thing ok this is the USA here have let's
just do it I think you can do it 5
minutes
you
okey-dokey let's have a look how did you
go as I said each paragraph
you're gonna write three paragraphs each
paragraph you can ride in five if you
can ride it in five minutes or less
that's a good thing so here we go with
regards to Australia's trade with the
USA come up both imports and exports
declined but experts experts exports
we're more steady great
in 2012 imports which started high with
seven billion dollars decreased by 0.5
billion dollars by the following year by
2015 it declined to four point seven
five billion dollars likewise exports
remain the same at three point seven
five billion in the first two years but
fell by 0.5 billion to 2014 and a
further point to five billion in 2015
joy that's really really good well done
really strong really strong going to use
the subtraction technique as well so
that worked really well excellent good
how did you go writing that in five
minutes just typing yes if you if you
write your paragraph in under five
minutes
the she'd yes joy did it good
nice nice nice all right cool good nice
let's write one more I should say on
test day it's uh I look all I can say is
doing practice like this when you're
actually putting pen to paper and your
time and knowing how quickly that time
moves and knowing how quickly you need
to write in order to reach that word
count in twenty minutes
it's good practice it's great practice
well done cool oops here's mine I don't
know why I didn't highlight it all read
it should say mine says this trade with
the USA declined slightly with imports
decreasing modern exports which remain
quite stable in particular imports
dropped quite consistently from seven
billion in 2012 to four point site four
point seven five billion in two
fifteen while exports were stable in
2012 and 2013
they then decreased a 3.3 billion
dollars by 2015
cool you guys right something different
let's do Japan same thing
here's Japan you have five minutes
okey-dokey how'd you go with this one
it's much of a muchness once you work
out how to do it it's fine it's the
first ones the most difficult then
you're like okay I've got this pattern I
can do it for the next one and the next
one cool with regards to Australia's
trade with Japan , imports experienced
slight a slight decrease before
increasing than plateauing new sentence
exports fell slightly over the period in
2012 exports decrease from four don't
make your introductory sentence that
description of the trends too long it
just has to be very shortened to say
exports fluctuated while imports
declined whatever okay then you get
specific because it's the details that
will take up your time and remember that
that introductory sentence that
description sentence yeah it just needs
to be simple and quite sure that's fine
like a two-sided sentence like while
imports fluctuated exports declined
whatever cool I'll just read one out
imports which Australia made with Japan
or imports which Australia you could say
Japanese imports which might be a more
concise way to say that Japanese imports
increased throughout the years whereas
the exports between Australian and Japan
decreased slightly good now we get
specific Australian imports with Japan
declined from 4.25 billion in 2012 to
3.75 in 2013 before sharply raising
sharply rising to five point seven five
and 2015 good in contrast to imports the
exports made by Australia with Japan
decrease throughout the years that's
fine you also need to add some data in
there as well you can if you're running
out of time
you could just say imports decreased
from X in 2012 to Y in 2015 and you
don't need to go through all the years
you can just shorten it like that as
well if you're running out
time or yeah especially running out of
time he's the big one good
that's fine that's fine okay so here's
my send sentences overall Japanese
imports fluctuated before increasing
while exports declined markedly more
specifically imports decreased in 2013
before rising to a high of five point
seven five billion in 2015 in contrast
exports gradually decline from 2.75
billion in 2012 to 1.5 billion in 2015
you can see that I missed on purpose I
skipped the three years in between I
just rent from 2012 to 2015 because it
was just a decline I said this is what
where it started this is where it ended
in 2015 was just a decline with
fluctuations it's a bit different
because you say it ok it started here it
rose it fell it rose it fell but if you
get a straight decline you can say you
know 2012 here 2015 here that makes it a
bit easier and this is still 171 words I
think what I've realized anyway is if
you try to describe everything you're
going to get yourself into trouble
because it's just going to be too dense
it's going to be too many words it's
going to take up too much of your
precious 60 minutes so don't try and do
every 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 no just
do that for some of them especially the
fluctuations but any increases or
decreases just do from first beginning
to end yes you don't need to be you
don't need to describe everything in
detail in fact in the instructions it
says select and report the main features
so they don't expect you to either cool
all right so let's just recap so if you
see on test day three tables I want you
to use this structure summarize describe
and compare table 1 describe and compare
table to describe and compare table 3 if
you see two tables
that's a different structure that's the
structure that I've been teaching which
you can see in the videos up here where
you do summarize our overall description
of the two tables and then the
comparison of the two tables but it
doesn't work for three tables or three
pie charts or three line graphs for
example so there's sort of two
structures anyway
I'm gonna get into those in the I'll
update the course by the way if you're
interested in joining those live classes
let me get to that slide join the live
classes with e to language comm we're
gonna run some master classes starting
next week on Monday the 6th until 6
until the 10th I should get those dates
right anyway next week Monday to Friday
every night of the week
academic writing task 1 academic writing
task sorry writing task 2 for both and
general writing task 1 as well as we're
going to go through the tricky reading
questions together so if you're free
member become a paid member even just
the budget package you'll receive an
invitation to join those intensive
master classes all you paid members out
there you will receive it anyway so
that's cool that's fine that'll be nice
along with the invitation and the live
classes you get a downloadable PDF I
want you to print out because I want you
to have the experience of writing on the
answer sheet and you know there's a lot
of psychology involved in this test yeah
so I want to put you under that pressure
anyway now I'll do a quick Q&A before I
go home and read my book and go to bed
so if you have any questions please put
them into the chat
Jane please tell me how I make
comparison if I will have a diagram in
oh great question great question
diagrams if you get a process right like
I don't know how to make paper right so
that it's the first pictures like the
forest the second pictures like that the
birds flying out of the trees because
they trees you and cut down whatever
you've got this process of making and
recycling paper for example how do you
compare it it's not there's nothing to
compare actually and I think this is a
floor in the IELTS test it's not a
comparison it's a description of the
process itself that's where you use the
language like firstly secondly thirdly
next after that subsequently finally
that's when you use those discourse
markers and what you do is you break it
into two halves so the first half of the
process you'll just you'll have to still
have the summary sentence the process
below illustrates how trees are made
into paper and then recycled back into
paper right fine so you rewrite that you
have the summary then you look at the
you look at the diagram the process and
it might have 10 steps okay so you
separate the first five steps into a one
paragraph you separate the second last
five steps six seven eight nine and ten
into the second paragraph you split it
up and you just describe the steps
firstly the trees are cut down by the
the loggers which and are then fed into
the sawmill whatever it is okay that's
how you do that good question bus must
so far which one of the packages is best
for me please send us an email - hello
Andy - language comm tell us about your
background how many tests you've taken
how long you've studied English when
your test date is we will recommend your
package okay
can free members also do these online
master classes know you will need to buy
a budget package what time are these
online master classes they're between 6
p.m. and 10 p.m.
Melbourne time which i think is about
what's that that's like I think it's
about 2 is what India is 4 hours in
front or 4 hours behind so I think
that's about 2 p.m. to 6 p.m.
Indian Standard Time 2:00 p.m. to 6 p.m.
cool I realize that I've written 225 for
this task would I rather limit my words
and be more brief ah yes
just make sure you don't go and try not
to spend more than 20 minutes because
your essay is worth twice as many marks
joelle good question though but that's a
good sign
that's a good sign and again don't try
to describe every single detail some of
it you can sort of collapse into a
sentence for example how do we get the
PDF for the online class I'll email it
to you Wilson so you're good cuz you're
a paid member so I'll send out an email
tomorrow or the next day
how long will be 2 to 6 so each master
class will go for an hour yeah
Monday line graphs Tuesday pie charts
Wednesday tables etc J I'm from Japan
this is my first time in planning to get
the Platinum cool you're from Japan and
your name is Lorenza I Christina Castro
and that's interesting and what is your
recent IELTS score I was waiting for
somebody to ask me this I'm not gonna
say because I'm going to send it back
for a review let me tell you this I am
beginning to think should I say this or
not I'm beginning to think that I alts
fighting is not marked properly I can
honestly tell you that I wrote a
phenomenal essay I wrote about 290 words
it was word perfect grammar perfect
vocabulary perfect right on topic and
the structure was excellent my writing
task one was was good it wasn't great
because I don't think the structure was
right as I said I got three line graphs
and I tried to use the other structure
and it didn't quite work that's why I've
started teaching this new structure so
maybe from writing task one I think my
coherence and cohesion
the third criteria would have decreased
a little bit but still I had perfect
vocabulary perfect grammar and it was
right on topic the IELTS gave me in
writing score that was I don't know I
don't know sometimes I think they mark
these things they throw them up in the
air and they just go that'll be a six
that'll be a five that'll be a seven
that'll be an eight I really I don't get
it I really don't get it anyway so I'm
sending it back to them and I'll let you
know once I get my review because oh man
I took the PTA and got 90 90 90 90 right
it's kind of like I tell you what's bad
because it doesn't it hasn't just
happened to me it's happened to a lot of
people who are excellent writers who
deserve to get probably a nine or at
least an 8.5 and it happens quite often
in fact house yeah I've got so many
stories so many stories yeah so it
happens to the best of us but don't
worry I'm gonna I'm gonna keep doing
this thing I'm gonna keep doing this
thing I'm gonna work out how to get a
nine I'm gonna work out how to get a
knife okay
I should I promise because I don't even
know if it's possible I promise that
I'll keep trying I can't promise that
I'll give a nine because I don't think
the island ever you
9 I don't even think it's possible it's
a crazy crazy exam anyway yeah yep yep
anyway I'll leave it there
thanks for coming I appreciate it I hope
you learned something I hope you can get
the score that you want alright I'll see
you soon remember to keep an eye out for
those master classes if you're not a
free member on e to language do sign up
so you receive an email from us see we
can tell you about it okay do you think
it's possible to get eight says Julie L
yeah is it is it it's not that how can I
say this look there are different tests
for different Rick things okay so what
I've found is PT is definitely easier
for writing PT is harder for speaking
IELTS is easy for speaking IELTS is
really hard for writing TOEFL is just a
good test all-round it works really well
Oh et if you're a nurse or a doctor or
something
good test tricky for reading in
particular yeah too embarrassed
I'll talk to you soon thanks for coming
you